In late June, they reach the volcano, which has three craters.

According to Saknussemm's message, the passage to the center of the Earth is through the one crater that is touched by the shadow of a nearby mountain peak at noon.

However, the text also states that this is only true during the last days of June.

During the next few days, with July rapidly approaching, the weather is too cloudy for any shadows.

Axel silently rejoices, hoping this will force his uncle – who has repeatedly tried to impart courage to him only to succeed in making him even more cowardly still – to give up the project and return home.

Alas for Axel, however, on the second to last day, the sun comes out and the mountain peak shows the correct crater to take. 

A lightning storm again threatens to destroy the raft and its passengers, but instead throws them onto the coastline.

This part of the coast, Axel discovers, is alive with prehistoric plant and animal life forms, including giant insects and a herd of mastodons.

On a beach covered with bones, Axel discovers an oversized human skull.

Axel and Lidenbrock venture some way into the prehistoric forest, where Professor Lidenbrock points out, in a shaky voice, a prehistoric human, more than twelve feet in height, leaning against a tree and watching a herd of mastodons.

Axel cannot be sure if he has really seen the man or not, and he and Professor Lidenbrock debate whether or not a proto-human civilization actually exists so far underground.

The three wonder if the creature is a man-like ape, or an ape-like man.

The sighting of the creature is considered the most alarming part of the story, and the explorers decide that it is better not to alert it to their presence as they fear it may be hostile. 

It is noteworthy that at the time of writing Verne had no hesitation with having sympathetic German protagonists with whom the reader could identify.

Verne's attitude to Germans would drastically change in the aftermath of the 1871 Franco-Prussian War.

After 1871, the sympathetic if eccentric Professor Otto Lidenbrock would be replaced in Verne's fiction by the utterly evil and demonic Professor Schultze of The Begum's Fortune.

The number of skydivers needed for a formation skydive to be considered a "big way" is often a contentious issue.

It often depends on what is considered normal at each dropzone.

For a small dropzone operating only a small Cessna aircraft that seats 5 people, anything over 5 may be considered "big".

However, for dropzones with aircraft that take more people, 6 would be considered small.

There are courses available for skydivers to train to jump on formations of 100 or greater. 